

106 Experts Share Their Thoughts on the Future of Education, Part 1: PreK-12

www.theedadvocate.org

 
1. Tacy Towbridge
Global Lead, Education Programs, Adobe
“As students prepare for a rapidly changing world, Adobe’s global Gen Z study reveals an increasing need for students to have opportunities to make and create. In support of this trend, we found that nine of ten Gen Z teachers see creativity as central to future careers and 93 percent of Gen Z students view technology as key to their career preparedness. We can expect to see creativity playing a central role in the classroom as educators tackle updating curriculum to align with the 21st century skills students need for future success in tomorrow’s workforce.”
 
Twitter: @tacytrow
 
2. Glenn Wiebe
Education Consultant, Essdack
“Viewing the future of education through my lens of social studies and civic engagement, it’s clear that we’ve failed a generation by ignoring the importance of a robust K-20 social studies curriculum. We must be more intentional about creating students who are engaged, informed, and knowledgeable citizens. This will require cross-curricular problem-based learning, cross-grade level interaction, the integration of web-centric and mobile tech tools, and opportunities to address authentic local, state, and national issues.”
 
Twitter: @glennw98
 
3. Kathy Schrock, Educational Technologist
“As education moves ahead, I am hoping to see a more personalized educational program for each student, allowing them to use the content they are required to learn in the context of pursuing their passions. If students can solve problems and create projects and products that use their passion as the basis for the assessments, I feel students will gain the love of learning we want them all to have!”
Twitter: @kathyschrock
 
4. Dr. Marilyn Price-Mitchell
Developmental Psychologist
Founder, Roots of Action
“I’m optimistic about the future of education. Why? Because each day I see new signs that teachers are applying the principles of positive youth development in their classrooms. From helping students analyze novels based on a character’s internal strengths, like integrity, curiosity, empathy, and resilience, to promoting the attributes of good citizenship, teachers are showing an increasing awareness of how cognitive, social, emotional, and physical learning are intricately intertwined. This is great news for students and for their ability to thrive in school and life.”
Twitter: @DrPriceMitchell
 
 
5. Kelly Keena, PhD.
Education Consultant, UL Xplorlabs
“In STEM education, our efforts in schooling are to draw distinct lines from classroom experiences to what is happening in the real world. Not only does this give students a preview of future career possibilities, but it also gives the learning purpose and answers the “so what?” It’s not enough to say that we need scientists and engineers, we must show students the path and what it’s made of. This direct effort by educators will continue to make STEM learning more tangible to students.”
 
 
 
6. Dr. Spike Cook, Principal
Lakeside Middle School, Millville, NJ
“The future of education is changing rapidly. There are indications and trends that lead me to believe that we will be creating more individualized learning opportunities for students through technology as well as real world experiences. When students in the future arrive at school it is going to look drastically different than today. Students will be on a course of action as they explore the many possibilities regarding their passion. Teachers will be assisting students on this journey as mentors, references, experts, and facilitators of knowledge. Although students will spend quite a bit of their day in front of screens, they will also be working collaboratively to solve problems to further their understanding of their passion.”
Twitter: @drspikecook
 
7. Kathi Kersznowski
Technology Integration Specialist
Washington Township Public Schools
“I am profoundly enthusiastic about the future of education!  I believe that our next greatest shift will emphasize what I call “facilitated choice”.  Knowledgeable, future-ready teachers will craft diverse, structured and purposeful digital pathways to learning mastery. Students will be empowered to choose the resources, modalities, and strategies to learn and to demonstrate their own proficiency.  As we design pedagogically sound playlists or well-planned learning menus, the teaching and learning will become more and more individualized. Gifting our students with learning options will drive self-directed learning and opportunities for creative self-expression!  I’m so joyful and fortunate to be a ‘tech edvocate’ in such exciting, transformative times!”
 
Twitter: @kerszi
 
8. Alejandra Guzman
Secondary Science Strategist Los Fresnos CISD
“Education where teachers lecture a homogeneous classroom is a memory of the past.  Technology is rapidly evolving and educators must step up to transform education.  Students have access to information at their fingertips.  Instead of spending time teaching concepts that can be Googled, we should focus instead on meaningful lessons that will strengthen student soft skills including collaboration, problem solving, and critical
Twitter: @aguzmanscience
Blog: http://highfivescience.blogspot.com/
 
9. Maya Ajmera
President and CEO of Society for Science & the Public
“We are at a significant crossroads in education: we are finding talented young people everywhere, but high-quality educational opportunities are not readily available. As we look to the future, education must provide all students with meaningful personalized learning experiences where students are taught by educators and mentors who enable them to think critically and become collaborative innovators. At the Society for Science & the Public, we believe science literacy and research, often accomplished via project-based learning, will play a more central role in education and preparing our students to find solutions to our world’s most pressing challenges.”
Twitter: @MayaAjmera
 
10. Dr. Rick L. Robins
Juab School District Superintendent
Digital Promise League of Innovative Schools 
“The future of education will rest largely in our ability to meet the economic demands of our modern global society. The education system as we know it was in large part constructed for the early Industrial Age. This meant providing a factory model of education that prepared the mass majority of our students for the assembly line. We are still struggling today to break free from this antiquated model even when we know that all industry has moved ahead in the Information Age. The future of education is found in the often referenced big four: collaboration, creativity, critical thinking, and communication. The latter skill being the most critical. To attain these outcomes for students at high levels, our best chance is to build and develop highly adaptable, flexible, and nimble models focused on personalized student pathways to success. Now more than ever, our students our counting on us to provide deep enriching relationships, networks, and the learning tools to go hand in hand.”
Twitter: @juabwasp1
 
11. Marcela Gómez
Mechanical Engineer, STEAM Teacher, Coach and Consultant. Teacherpreneur. Independent Researcher.
English Teacher for Middle School at Colegio de la Universidad Pontificia Bolivariana. Medellín, Colombia.
“When I think on the future of Education, I think about movement, questions, projects and debates related to the way we are going on as a society and part of Nature. In other words, the future of Education involves the settlement of learning communities, based on competencies and impact on upcoming generations. To do so, I cannot imagine a steady state on a learning community, but lots of convective questions and possibilities that make people’s minds boil and show up brilliant, creative insights. That made me create the concept of #STEAMCulture, where all of us can rebuild new mindsets and habits, oriented to learning and improvement.”
Twitter: @MarcelaSTEAM
 
12. Dr. Brad Gustafson
Elementary Principal and author of “Renegade Leadership”
“The future of education belongs to the learner. I foresee a systemic pivot towards practices that promote educator agency and amplify student-voice. School accountability will no longer compete with student learning. Our tolerance for allowing hyper-testing to crowd out the preexisting talent each and every learner possesses will diminish. We will start seeing greatness in all its forms, and teaching the whole child will take on a new meaning.”
Twitter: @GustafsonBrad
 
 
13. Eric Cantor
CEO, New Mountain Learning
“The future of education lies in creating innovative, engaging and real-world learning environments that address the gaps in college and career readiness. One example is to leverage emerging technologies to help students build the language, computer and financial literacy skills they need to succeed in whatever path they choose to take.”
Twitter: @emcschool
 
 
14. Jason Glass
Jeffco Public Schools
Superintendent & Chief Learner
“This is the most exciting time to be a learner and to work in the field of education. While challenges of equity certainly still exist – never have the opportunities to learn, collaborate, share, create, and publish been democratized to so many. The challenge for our education systems is to adapt to this new reality. We must be flexible with our thinking around how we define things such as teaching, learning, school, and education. And, we must consciously work not to confine this new era to our past conceptions, but instead to embrace it with the same sense of curiosity and wonder we hope for in our learners.”
Twitter: @COJasonGlass
 
15. Dr. Ellen Weber
Mita International Brain Center 
“When education looks to learner potential rather than traditional practices, it lights a focused way for all to grow wonder and curiosity. We’ll activate hidden and unused intelligences, with the question, What if every student here was a genius? Interactive and brain-friendly tools enable us to hold a crown patiently over learners’ head, while they grow into unique pinnacles where they find delightful meaning.
This depends on breaking from tools and traditions that fail to fit new neural discoveries. It opens minds to the mental possibilities within all learners, so teachers also learn at times, while students also teach at times.”
Twitter: @ellenfweber
 
16. Sarah-Jane Thomas
Educator
“The future of education is bright. Although there are many challenges that we are navigating, I see hope in that educators are reclaiming their voices and sharing through the power of connection. I am looking forward to seeing this increase, as the practice continues to spread and evolve.”
Twitter: @sarahdateechur
 
 
17. Matt Harris, Ed.D. 
International Educational Technology Consultant
“The future of education will pivot from content area knowledge towards skills development and personalization of learning. We will move away from high stakes assessment that information retention to tasks and collaboration. Students will learn how to learn, where to find relevant information, and attain practical experience through long term assignments. We will no longer quiz kids on cellular biology when they are becoming accountants, rather we will give tools to complete large and complex projects.”
Twitter: @mattharrisedd
 
18. Todd Brekhus, President of myON
“The future of education is exciting. The next wave of products and solutions will move from “drill and kill” products labeled as personalized learning to what I call the “curiosity creation wave.” Future products will be exciting and innovative, have the ability to meet the needs of students with a variety of learning styles, give students the freedom to consume content in new ways, and provide supports to ensure learning is understood. I also look at a global education model where learning is tied to not only current events but historical and cultural realities as well. I am further excited by the idea of personalization of teaching. Teachers will curate innovative streams of rich teaching models personalized to their style and their students’ needs.”
Twitter: @ToddBrekhus
 
19. Jacqui Murray
Adjunct Professor/Mentor/Teacher/Author
“The future of education is empowering students to think for themselves. We have everything we need today to turn students into critical thinkers and problem-solvers who can take on the world’s toughest problems. The only change required is in our mindset. Preparing for the future is not about collaboration or paper-free or the perfect textbook or who has the best technology. It’s about recognizing the questions and knowing how to find paths to the solution.”
Twitter: @askatechteacher
 
 
20. Jill McEldowney and Cathy Henry
Co-Founders & Creators at The Curriculum Corner
Curriculum Resource Consultants
“We are very hopeful about the future of education!  Educators these days have such easy and abundant access to research and resources to help them with planning and daily instruction.  Teachers understand now more than ever how important it is to inspire lifelong learning and a nation of students who are thinkers and know how to solve real-world problems.  It is an exciting time to be in education!”
Twitter: @curriculumcornr
 
21. Joël McLean
Principal and Leadership Coach
Pedagogical Leader at CFORP (currently)

“What will education look like in 5, 10, 20 years? In a recent post by Christopher Dede in Education Week, he states that “…our children and students face a future of multiple careers, not just jobs.” This is very true. People are living longer, and as a result are working many more years during the course of their lives. For our kids today, this probably equates to having to get ready for multiple careers in their lifetime. I guess we can call it a «career of reinventing oneself. So what does that mean for our schools and the way we need to educate our kids? Here are what I think are some non-negotiables in helping our students prepare for what awaits them in the future:
Competency based learning, not content based learning
Developing transferable skills
Globalization, artificial intelligence (AI), digital and media (communication)
Deep learning (project-based learning – authentic learning opportunities)”
Twitter: @jprofNB
 
22. Marina Umaschi Bers, PhD.
Professor at the Eliot-Pearson Department of Child Study and Human Development at Tufts University and Co-Founder and Chief Scientist at KinderLab Robotics
“The future of education depends on engaging our youngest learners as creators with technology. When young children develop technological fluency—an ability to express themselves with technology—they gain problem-solving strategies and cognitive skills that represent a fundamental literacy of the 21st century. Learning computational thinking and sequencing skills at this young age is a predictor for academic success in literacy and reading as well as mathematics and other STEM fields. Introducing playful learning, collaboration, and coding in education allows children to see themselves as producers rather than consumers in today’s technology-driven world.”
Twitter: @marinabers
 
23. Richard Lawson
Mitsui Professor of Data, Systems, and Society, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
“The future of education: (1) It will be lifelong, not constrained to early years of life; (2) It will be more conceptual, emphasizing critical thinking skills, with less emphasis on facts (which are all on Google); (3) It will be offered by new tiered organizational structures of teachers and teaching, with many human-resources concepts borrowed from health care services; (4) It will NOT be all computer-based, especially for young learners who need extensive human mentorship; (5) It will be constantly evolving and always exciting!”
 
 
24. Matt Guyan
Solutions Developer at B Online Learning
“Education in the future will deliver learning to people wherever they are and be available when needed and easily accessed. Education will be personalised and tailored to the current and future needs of the learner. Education won’t just be about completing courses, it will also involve collaboration and openly sharing experience so that people can learn from each other.”
Twitter: @MattGuyan
 
 
 
25. Dr. Stephen G. Peters
Superintendent/Author/Speaker
“Our education system directly affects our society, as our society affects our education system. The present status of both agencies demand change now, however, change requires us to transform, think and react differently, when it’s easier to remain the same. While some observers state, “our schools are broken,” they aren’t broken, they are operating as designed. Moreover, the organizational structures of our school systems and schools are no longer aligned to the realities our students face daily.
Leaders and teachers who share the moral imperative to replace the traditional classroom with a modern or personalized learning environment must turn away from single-point solutions; instead employ long-term, systemic solutions that help answer society’s call to produce graduates with skills to compete in the industries of our time. The future of education is in the hands of those who have the sustainable will and skill to fight the turbulent, unpredictable storm we face in our world of public education.  My last breath will be spent fighting for our children to be educated at the highest levels possible.”
Twitter: @stephengpeters
 
26. Shantell Thaxton Berrett
Lead Professional Development and Dyslexia Specialist for Reading Horizons
“In 2015, the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services created a policy identifying dyslexia, dysgraphia, and dyscalculia as specific language disabilities. Today, 39 states have statewide dyslexia laws, and many others have handbooks or resource guides. For teachers to support dyslexic students, they need in-depth professional development on teaching core reading skills, including phonological awareness, decoding, an understanding of structured language, and literacy in general. With the recognition of dyslexia as a language disability, I believe we will see more schools providing professional development in this area.”
Twitter: @ReadingHorizons
 
27. Jason Stricker, CEO, Insight Education Group
“In the U.S., 46% of districts have fewer than 1,000 students and one-third of all public schools are located in rural areas. While many of these smaller school districts face the same challenges as larger school systems, they often lack the infrastructure and supports of larger districts. Educators in these districts often experience “professional isolation” making it hard to gain traction with the greatest school-related influencers on student achievement: the recruitment, development, and retention of teachers, teacher leaders, and principals. At Insight, we believe that the future of education lies in networked improvement communities whereby teachers and school leaders, especially in small districts and rural areas, can participate in “cross-school collaboration” with a broader network of peers for meaningful, job-specific collaboration for school improvement. These networks offer the promise of providing the professional support and growth educators need and want“
Twitter: @StricktlyJason
 
28. Greg Firn, Chief Operating Officer at RoboKind
“The future of education is summed up in two words, “renaissance” and “coherence.” Education will experience a renaissance, a “rebirth” of the “love of learning” underpinned by authentic access and opportunity for each learner to construct, apply, and demonstrate their learning that is meaningful, relevant, and timely—not according to antiquated instructional calendars or age-based grade configurations. The process and the product of learning will be equals in import, value, and worth. This unprecedented coherence of education will benefit individuals, communities, and states—and our nation will benefit, at last, from the promises and best hopes of “an educated citizenry.”
 
29. Michael Moody
Founder and CEO of Insight ADVANCE
“The future of education depends upon supporting teachers to ensure they’re at the top of their game. Rather than pretending that the status quo is working, we must engage in more effective support practices, such as instructional coaching, to empower teachers to reflect upon their practice and make the improvements needed to ensure that all students are achieving. Leaders should be considering how they are designing and implementing systems that will actually improve practice. This means not only supporting teachers, but also focusing on developing those in support positions, such as school leaders and instructional coaches. Despite the many initiatives aimed at improving outcomes, nothing will ever replace the impact of a great teacher.”
Twitter: @DrMichaelMoody
 
30. Tara Garcia Mathewson
Staff Writer, The Hechinger Report
“The future of education will be defined by schools’ increased responsibility. While schools long got a pass for properly educating only a sliver of the population, they are now widely expected to succeed with all students and prepare everyone for both college and middle-class careers. In response, schools will continue finding innovative ways to accomplish a much more ambitious mission. Among them: offering holistic supports to meet the non-academic needs of students, personalizing instruction to address achievement gaps, forging external partnerships to get students early college and career experience and using technology to create new efficiencies in teaching and learning.”
Twitter: @TaraGarciaM
 
31. Heath Morrison
President of McGraw-Hill Education’s School Group
“As we look at the future of education and how we can make a positive, meaningful impact for students, we have to address equity in education. It is imperative that we create the right conditions that will lead to equitable learning outcomes for all students – regardless of income, race or other factors. Across the education industry, we need to work together to create more partnerships and develop multi-faceted strategies that will remove barriers to success, improve struggling schools and help educators provide students with the opportunities and resources that they need to succeed, both in and out of the classroom.”
Twitter: @mheducation
 
32. Michael Cohen; The Tech Rabbi
Innovate Learning Consultant and Speaker
“I see education, as the last industry to avoid disruption and evolution at the hands of the internet and technology. The internet has completely democratized access to knowledge, resources, and most of all to people. While education continues to focus on rote memorization and standardized assessments, anyone with an internet connection can take an online course, connect with experts, and develop valuable skills for the #FutureofWork. While many are excited about AR, VR, AI and other emerging technologies, I am fascinated at how students can leverage the internet and social media to succeed in professions they’re passionate about.”
Twitter: @TheTechRabbi
 
33. Meredith May
Director of Marketing, Turnitin 
“Today’s cultural climate has revealed that conducting oneself with honor and integrity is more important–and visible–than ever before. Integrity is a learned virtue, and schools of the future will be responsible for teaching it. Tools and policies that support education with integrity will be essential components of preparing students to be contributing members of society in school and beyond.”
Twitter: @Turnitin
 
34. Douglas A. Levin
President, EdTech Strategies, LLC.
“For those with the motivation and means, the future of learning will be more open, more authentic, and more collaborative than ever. For those who are marginalized, the future is less certain. One key will be how technology is used to advance learning in and out of school. Will it empower students to think critically about their place in the world and how they can contribute? Or, will it be used to control their attention, behavior, and interests? The collective voice of educators has never been more important in determining which future of education we are creating and for whom.”
Twitter: @douglevin
 
35. Caroline Fahmy
President and CEO of Educational Data Systems 
“If I were to put my money on the future of education, I would put it all on supporting the quality of people—school leaders and teachers. New technologies, artificial intelligence, assessment for accountability, data dashboards, charter schools, and other developments are important to the educational machine.
But, students will need school leaders who are capable of managing, evaluating, and supporting staff and who uphold effective pedagogy. And, they will need teachers who mentor other teachers and collaborate; who can effectively manage a classroom; and who have enthusiasm and interest in making sure all students receive everything they need to be successful.”
 
36. Michele L. Haiken, Ed.D., Educator and Author
Rye Middle School & Manhattanville College
“Personalized learning experiences for teachers and students continues in the near future for education. Helping all students succeed and reach excellence is our mission. What we define as success and excellence continues to evolve so that our students are critical thinkers, problem solvers, collaborators, and active learners. As schools are rethinking the idea of space and the learning landscape of education, the physical space of schools will take on new shapes and forms. Technology and digital literacy is embedded throughout blended learning experiences to help students and teachers work smarter.”
Twitter: @teachingfactor
 
37. Bryan Bigari, Fractus Learning
“We can’t keep teaching students to prepare them for a 20th century world that has long-gone by.  If you believe as I do that education’s true purpose is to prepare students to be happy, productive fulfilled adults – then our curriculum and teaching styles need to reflect that reality. I doubt very few would design the current education system if given a black slate and told to prepare students to build and work in the world of 2025 or 2030.
We finally have the ability using technology to reach each child at their individual skill level, learning speed, and learning style.  We should do that.  I’m not saying it’s easy, and it’ll take a lot of trust and work by all players.  The reality is though, it’s too important not to try.”
Twitter: @fractuslearning
 
38. Dr. Alfred Boyd
Professor of Education, Mississippi Valley State University and Edtech Entrepreneur
“The future of edcation in America is accelerated.  There will be universal preschool, and it will be accelerated.  Preschool students will move beyond learning colors and numbers will to learning number operations and algebraic concepts– from learning to write their names to learning to write narratives. This Universal Preschool will allow students in Elementary school to complete some objectives of students who are in middle school in 2017. By the time that students in the future have completed 9th grade, they will have completed most of their major high school coursework. Which will allow high school students to choose a diploma track, i.e., STEM, vocational, or postsecondary, with a 12th-grade apprenticeship. The majority of high school curriculum will be based on diploma track that the students have chosen. Thereby, giving the USA a pool of workers who are ready, willing, and trained to work.”
Twitter: @DR_SIPPI
 
39. Kaliris Y. Salas-Ramirez, PhD
Assistant Medical Professor
The Sophie Davis Program of Biomedical Education, CUNY School of Medicine
Department of Cellular, Molecular and Biomedical Science
“As a parent, activist, and educator, I am frightened about the future of education from kindergarten through higher education. Although everyday I witness extraordinary educators and the amazing work being done in classrooms to provide all students with a holistic educational experience, most institutions compromise socioemotional and culturally competent practices in classrooms for what are considered “standards”. Educators psychologists, scientists and physicians should come together to develop curricula and policies that support all students. We need to stop selling students off to the biggest corporate bidder! We must replace archaic assessments and standards with humanity, democracy and equity for progress.”
Twitter: @SaveCPE1
 
40. Ai Zhang, Ph.D
Associate Professor at Stockton University, New Jersey, US; and independent digital pedagogy consultant
“I envision the future of education as one hyper-connected classroom that prioritizes open-sharing and collaborative learning. Teachers become facilitators of knowledge and co-creators of content together with the students and the broader academic and professional communities. This classroom has no walls that separate classes or subjects from one another— students work together holistically on projects, exercising self-agency, self-directed and self-paced learning; and collaborating with teachers and industry professionals to solve problems across a wide range of disciplines and skills. This open classroom leverages the power of technology to amplify one teacher or class’ voice to a national and global level.”
Twitter: @AiAddysonZhang
 
41. Elisabeth Bostwick, Teacher and Speaker 
“Imagine learners jubilantly bounding into school to greet their peers and learning coaches. Perhaps upon arrival, they engage in an exploration of their choice, based on their passions and are immersed in the wonder and awe of natural phenomena. For example, there may be options that include maker education, art exploration, research opportunities, the continuation of projects being created to demonstrate learning, and more! As teachers craft opportunities for students to be self-initiated learners, student agency will develop. I envision that in the future of education, educators will become increasingly intentional about developing a deep sense of community, where stakeholders actively engage in the school setting by bridging the connection between school and work opportunities. The goal of this would be to support learners in identifying their passions which in turn, will empower them to recognize and follow their calling, leading to a lifetime of fulfillment. I believe that the future of education will place a greater emphasis on fostering divergent over convergent thinking by providing opportunities for students to imagine, ask questions, construct prototypes, retool, and share to an authentic audience. Together, let’s ignite a culture of innovation as we move forward to the future of education!”
Twitter: @ElisaBostwick
 
42. Randy Ziegenfuss, Ed.D.
Superintendent, Salisbury Township School District (PA)
“It is a very exciting time to be in K12 education! It’s also a bit frightening to think about the world that our youngest learners will be entering in the decade of the 2030s. Are we focusing on the “right things”? While nobody has a crystal ball and can predict what will be, we can shift our ways of thinking about school and education from a paradigm that is school-centered to one that is learner-centered, reflecting the hyper-personalized world we live in. If we can provide our learners with the ability to be expert learners for life, we will have done our work well. The future of education is promising, and the exciting work of today is helping stakeholders, educators and learners understand the need for change now that will prepare the way for a future of constant learning.”
Twitter: @ziegeran
 
43. Dr. Shelly Vohra (Instructional Coach and Online Instructor) 
“The future of education will see students learning in a blended self-paced format, where learning is personalized with no formal curriculum. Learners will be able to work in different places at different times, making connections globally, and working collaboratively to meet their goals and at the same time developing their human literacy skills. Assessment and evaluation will consist of field experiences, internships, and collaborative projects so that students can develop skills related to their career aspirations. Educators will serve as mentors and guides, providing students with face to face opportunities in which to discuss and consolidate their learning.”
Twitter: @raspberryberet3
 
44. Bashaer Mohammed Al Kilani
Lecturer, Author, Speaker
“The rise of the innovation era has redefined the key skills that individuals nowadays need to be productive contributors to the society and the economy. To begin with, individuals, in an innovative context, need to have the aptitude to gain knowledge and the competence to develop new skills throughout their lives. Secondly, schools should radically transform their curricula, instruction, and assessment to become innovation learning hubs; this can be made easier with the aid of technology, which would be a major altering factor in this transformation. Embracing a decentralized curriculum will encourage creativity in schools; also, it will aid in the building of a dynamic personalized learning plan for each learner.
Twitter: @bashaierk
 
45. Samantha-Kaye Johnston
Curtin University and Founder of Project Capability
“Globally, 103 million children lack efficient reading skills. Dyslexia, which affects approximately 10 % of the population, is a primary cause of inefficient reading. The 2030 Sustainability Agenda explains that greater steps should be taken to heighten the presence, participation, and achievement of marginalized groups within the education system. Broadly, the current education system is failing to provide such equality for children with dyslexia. Consequently, the future of education requires a re-evaluation of its teaching and assessment strategies. Additionally, greater priority needs to be placed on funding more robust reading research aimed at identifying interventions for the problem of disordered reading.”
Twitter: @IAMSAMKJ
 
46. Jon Samuelson
Innovation Strategist, Beaverton School District
“We need site and district based leaders that are willing to make bold changes in education, not go with the status quo. Education is too dependent on test scores to prove how students are learning, or to measure teacher success. Leaders that allow teachers, and students, to be creative are rare. Teachers need to have freedom to allow student choice and different types of assessment. Students need to collaborate on projects that involve soft skills like creativity, critical thinking, and global awareness to be successful. Leaders need to take the focus off test scores and focus on facilitating learning outcomes.”
Twitter: @jonsamuelson
 
47. Marlena Gross-Taylor, Founder EduGladiators
“What if there’s a place, a secret place where nothing is impossible? A miraculous place where you could actually change the world. You wanna go?” ~Tomorrowland, 2015
“A couple of years ago, I had the pleasure of watching a movie that continues to inspire me – Tomorrowland.  When I think about the quote from the movie, the answer is crystal clear. To me, this wonderful, secret place isn’t such a secret. Isn’t this the purpose of school?
The shift of education must return wholeheartedly to authentic learning for students and meaningful professional development for teachers and leaders supporting innovation and creativity.  The workforce our students will be entering will consist of jobs that haven’t been created yet. We must align our lessons, resources & vision on preparing our students for the 21st century?
As educators, we must recommit ourselves & embrace a new era of leadership, engagement & advocacy focused on what is best for students and create experiences that foster a love for learning and ingenuity. Classrooms are the perfect forum to develop future game-changers, a growth mindset & understanding that mistakes are just an opportunity for continuous growth. School most remain a viable experience for students in a modern world…in a new era.”
Twitter: @mgrosstaylor
 
48. Christopher J. Hall
Interim President, Denmark Technical College (Denmark, South Carolina)
“Education is a crossroads. Those who are responsible for moving formal education forward will determine its future. These educators have some directions from which to choose. One path is to continue with traditional lecturing, where the teacher stands before the class and spouts knowledge. The next path is embracing technology and using it deliver knowledge to the students. Though technology has continued to grow and evolve, its use in education has not kept pace.
The future of education is rooted in how knowledge will be delivered to the learner. For Education to have a viable future, technology has to be integrated from the creation to the dissemination of knowledge. “
Twitter: @ChrisJHallSC 
 
49. Michele Pitman, founder and CEO of intelliVOL, developers of x2VOL
“Community service is going to become a quantitative measure just like a student’s GPA. It is also going to become a category of the “Best” school measures of the major news publications that rank schools around the country. Community service and other forms of internships will become so fundamental to the way we teach (and increasingly critical measures for getting into college) that these publications will have to start ranking schools for the amount of opportunities they offer and student participation. – Michele Pitman, founder and CEO of intelliVOL, developers of x2VOL.”
Twitter: @x2VOL 
 
 
50. Dr. Courtney Pepe
Kean University
“The future of education will be influenced by curriculum, assessment data, and educational technology.  We must consider the frameworks of Charlotte Danielson, Les Vygotsky, Ben Bloom, and Dr. Ruben Puentedura as we curate unique learning experiences for Generation Z.  We must always remember the needs of our population sub-groups (special education and bilingual learners) when we design 21st century learning experiences.  We must analyze data to make future educational decisions.  In this analysis, it is important to measure: the power of perseverance, cognitive engagement, and student growth both qualitatively and quantitatively.”
 
51. Philip D. Lanoue, Ph.D.
PDL Consultants
“Let’s start with the new beliefs which are the core of change if schools are going to prepare ALL students to be successful in their world, tomorrow. We will make the changes necessary when the adults realize digital learning environments:
Close the achievement gap through 24/7 digital access;
Place students at the center of learning to make it personal;
Expand traditional school boundaries using digital space;
Change instructional design to support the new core skills of collaboration, communication, problem solving, synthesis, and research.
Are you ready to engage in the conversations needed to embrace these new beliefs and changes?”
Twitter: @pdlconsultants
 
52. Jerry Burch
Deputy Superintendent, Woodward Public Schools 
“I have great concern about the future of public education. It seems that we are under attack from several that see public education as a failure. It seems to me that our democracy is also under that same attack. Our democracy is founded on and will only continue if we have a well informed and educated populous. We have been engaged in school improvement and accountability for more than two decades.”
Twitter: @jeburch1 
 
 
 
53. Peter Hostrawser
Founder & Chairman – OPRF School of Business
Blogger – Disrupt Education
“The future of education will be geared towards progressive learning. Curriculum will be aligned to fit the needs of its community and region. My belief is that current secondary schools are overly reliable on standardized tests and systematic inhibitors. Content areas will be more integrated and student centered. Education will build on what students thrive in rather than “fixing” their deficiencies. School buildings will cease to be “prison like” buildings and become more open to flexible learning. Technology will allow students to do the important work of becoming productive problem solvers and ultimately productive citizens within their communities.”
Twitter: @peterhostrawser
 
54. Michael K. Barbour
Associate Professor of Instructional Design for the College of Education and Health Services
Touro University California
“I am often asked this question and tend to have two responses.  From a structural standpoint, I fear the privatization of public education.  The continued push for school choice and free market initiatives simply create two education systems: one for families with economic, political, and/or social capital and a second, inferior, system for everyone else.  Optimistically, I see schools like ones we had 100 years ago.  Teachers and local communities deciding what students should learn.  Classrooms where students were challenged, material was customized to them, and students support each other – like the old one room schools, just with more technology.”
Twitter: @mkbtuc
 
55. Ryan McCarty, PhD
National Louis University, Chicago, Illinois
“In the future, educational research approaches that test and refine interventions in the crucible of real classrooms, such as design-based research, will gain influence.  Teachers and teacher teams will seek greater autonomy to innovate, resulting in creative solutions to persistent educational problems.  Online reasoning will become a central focus as educators respond to the “fake news” controversies and emphasize these skills as essential for civic engagement.  Schools will empower students to become not only consumers but producers of multimodal online arguments, with an emphasis on inquiry into real-world issues. Disciplinary literacy will remain an essential part of this work.”
Twitter: @RyanP_McCarty
 
56. Fanuel Muindi, Ph.D. 
Co-Founder/Director, THE STEM ADVOCACY INSTITUTE
“I see the future of education focusing almost exclusively on inquiry based approaches across the entire system. Inquiry based learning teaches students a critical skill in constructing questions or problems. The current system focuses too much on having students identify the right answer. However, I think students that are able to find important questions have an advantage. Such a skill is critical across fields. It is an ability that needs to be cultivated from a young age. Students need opportunities (e.g., doing research based projects) to develop such an important skill. I see the future focusing extensively on this skill through project based learning. New universities such as Station1 are moving in the right direction by challenging the current model.”
Twitter (Personal): @fanuelmuindi
Twitter (Organization): @stemadvocacy
 
57. Sarah? ?Giddings,? ?NBCT Teacher? ?Leader? ?&? ?Advisor WAVE? ?Program? ?-? ?Washtenaw? ?Educational? ?Options? ?Consortium National? ?Teacher-Powered? ?Ambassador 
“In? ?the? ?future? ?of? ?education? ?in? ?America? ?having? ?a? ?well-defined? ?education? ?? ?will? ?be? ?highly? ?valued, coveted,? ?and? ?cherished.? ?In? ?the? ?future,? ?the? ?national? ?and? ?state? ?trajectory? ?will? ?be? ?to? ?invest? ?money, time,? ?and? ?support? ?with? ?tightly? ?interlinked? ?P-20? ?partnerships? ?that? ?support? ?and? ?nurture? ?a? ?highly skilled? ?educator? ?workforce,? ?highly? ?skilled? ?student? ?population,? ?and? ?equitable? ?resources.
Schools? ?will? ?be? ?teacher-powered? ?and? ?student-centered.? ?They? ?will? ?be? ?collaboratively? ?designed? ?by community? ?members,? ?parents,? ?educators,? ?and? ?students.? ?The? ?role? ?of? ?educator? ?will? ?be? ?expanded to? ?account? ?for? ?hybrid? ?leadership? ?roles.? ?Students? ?will? ?have? ?a? ?broad? ?foundation? ?in? ?curiosity,? ?play, critical? ?thinking,? ?and? ?diverse? ?perspectives.”
Twitter: @sarahyogidds
 
58. Dr. Myrrha Satow
Founder/President Performance Academies
“The future of education rests on our commitment and belief that all children can learn and all children can achieve at high levels. In particular, raising awareness and demanding academic rigor for students with disabilities in traditional public and public charter schools alike is key to the future success of education. Well planned lessons with edtech used creatively and purposefully shows promise in increasing and supporting academic achievement for all kids, regardless of their current levels of achievement. It will be critical for students with disabilities to have access to these tools and to be provided consistent supports while using them.”
Twitter: @myrrhapandora
 
 
59. Preston Green
Professor of Education and Law
University of Connecticut
“Supporters of charter schools and private-school choice programs will continue to defend these sectors vigorously against claims that they lead to increased racial segregation. By contrast, these advocates will remain relatively silent in the face of mounting evidence that they are insufficiently financially regulated.”
Twitter: @DrPrestonGreen
 
60. Ross Morrison McGill
Most Followed Educator on Twitter in the U.K
“I would lead government policy, tackling the workload issue sooner rather than later, using a systematic and current classroom teacher’s perspective. This would revolutionize the way teaching is currently structured and transform the profession overnight. It may not happen in my career as a teacher, but I remain optimistic that one–day, teachers will be free to plan and mark during their normal timetabled day. Plus, redefine our school system as we know it, which is not sophisticated or well-advanced enough to support the most vulnerable students in our society if they continue to be measured by a linear model of examinations or shoe-horned into studying ‘certain’ subjects.”
Twitter: @TeacherToolkit
 
61. Dr. Andre D. Spencer
Superintendent of Schools, Harrison School District 2
“As a superintendent, I wholeheartedly believe that the future of public education in America will continue to come under major scrutiny.  Some people in our country want a private-public school system, which has proven to be racially and socio-economically bias.  Public School Educators must continue to fight to ensure that all public schools are held to high expectations of accountability, while meeting the needs of diverse learners from multiple cultures in our communities.  This will represent a true human microcosm of America. What do you want from public education?”
Twitter: @hsd2Supt
 
 
62. James DiDonato
Superintendent of Schools for the Mount Holly Township Public School District
“Despite the multitude of obstacles, from the federal government to the local community, I foresee a bright and positive future for the United States school system. Why? The research is stronger than ever. The educator is more equipped than ever. The educational gurus are pressing upon social and academic equity, as well as leading the charge in developing a learning environment where every child is both available to learn and motivated to learn. We, as educational leaders, are working diligently on taking back the autonomy of the individual school, while working within a competitive system to promote an excellent education for every student. We are finding the balance between teaching the basics and cultivating the capacity for lifelong learning, the creativity for innovation, and the curiosity for exploration to develop the well-rounded child. The well rounded child needs to have academic, emotional, and social stability. And, the well rounded child needs to have the desire to be civic minded with the wherewithal to question the democratic principles and the undemocratic principles running this nation, and the world.”
Twitter: @jamesedidonato 
 
63. Shannon McClintock Miller, Future Ready Librarian Spokesperson, Author, Speaker and Consultant
Blog: The Library Voice thelibraryvoice.com 
“I can’t think of a more important question than this….What is the future of education?  It is such a special time for education as educators, librarians, administrators and parents. It can be especially exciting for our students. When I think about the future of education, the words transformation, personalized, engaging, and creative all come to mind!
As educators, we can create an environment where our students go to school feeling engaged and motivated when learning, collaborating and creating with their peers and with others around the the world.  School doesn’t need to be defined by the four walls of a classroom or building anymore. Instead, learning can happen anywhere and our students become even more engaged and excited from this too.
We can empower them to share and celebrate their voice by giving them the tools and skills they need to  share their creativity, knowledge, ideas, failures and work with an authentic global audience, as well as develop personal stories for assessment and success. With personalized learning, educational technology, global consecutiveness and equity playing such an important role within education, we can’t help but be excited about the opportunities ahead for our students. All young people deserve these opportunities.  And we, as educators, have the ability and skills to make this happen. Let’s be the change that education and our students need.”
Twitter: @shannonmmiller 
 
Conclusion
We would like to thank all our experts for contributing to this roundup. How is your school or organization working to prepare for the future? Let us know what’s worked and what hasn’t worked.
Click here to access all the parts of this roundup series.
 
 
 



 
1. Dr. Monica Burns
Author of Tasks Before Apps and Founder of ClassTechTips.com

2013 ADE North America Institute
“In the next year I think we will see an increase in scannable technology and virtual reality integration in PreK-20 schools. From augmented reality experiences where our youngest learners scan and watch a diagram pop off the page, to immersive 360 video where secondary students explore different corners of the world, the possibilities are endless!”
Twitter: @classtechtips
 
 
 
2. Krishna Vedati
CEO and co-founder of Tynker

“Google can solve basic and complex math equations in an instant, but only those students who are truly inspired have the power to enact real change, and this must begin at a younger age. For this reason, children should be taught soft skills such as mindfulness in public schools. Schooling should be disruptive, and needs to be flipped on its head to draw clear connections between general knowledge and higher purpose.”
Twitter: @kvedati

 
3. Kerry Gallagher, JD
Digital Learning Specialist, St. John’s Prep
“We are the midst of a digital revolution, both within and outside of education. It is our responsibility to recognize this and see it as an opportunity rather than something to be feared. My hope is that the future of education will bring more varied creative opportunities for teachers and students. We will see more and more students actively participating in and contributing to the world around them and we will no longer see school as merely “preparation” for that world.”
Twitter: @kerryhawk02
 
 
 
4. Katherine Manuel
SVP of Innovation at Thomson Reuters  

“Technology will fundamentally alter education in three ways. First, technology will allow teachers to better assess children and customize lessons to provide higher quality education for each student. Second, technology (e.g. computer programming and networking) will become as ubiquitous across curriculums as reading and writing are today. Third, this ubiquitous technology education will enable gender and racial parity across the study of and output from Technology, leading to a far more diverse set of inventors and innovations.”
 
Twitter: @kgmanuel
 
5. Neil Jarrett 
Year 6 leader at an international school in Shanghai, China.
“The future of education is very exciting.  With the increasing use of tech in schools, the possibilities for creativity and innovation are endless!  I am particularly interested to see how virtual reality will become a key part in lessons; its potential is huge.  Furthermore, with collaboration becoming easier due to online tools, I can’t wait to work with others around the world on joint projects.”
Twitter: @edtechneil
 
 
6. Utkarsh Lokesh 
CEO & Editor, EdTechReview
“Edtech startups bet that the future of education is going to be STEM learning, 3D printing, learning through VR/AR, teaching coding, and GBL; but I believe it is going to be all of that and more. I believe that the future of education will produce more creators, more problem solvers and more entrepreneurs – if we can teach students to become leaders, then we can build a brighter future.”
Twitter: @utkarshlokesh
 
 
7. Dr. Micah Shippee, Educator
“The future of education will be shaped by our ability to meaningfully adopt emergent technology, rather than forcefully integrate. “Adoption” infers being more than just tacked on to a culture, it illustrates acceptance as part of the cultural norm. Here we will find ourselves in a paradigm shift where our learner-centered instruction will yield powerful experiential knowledge. The resulting shift will hold increasingly tangible learning experiences for learners to connect with places previously only available through static, one-dimensional delivery. Further, learners will be afforded opportunities to leverage emergent technology to create authentic products for their individual learning context.”
Twitter: @micahshippee
 
8. Lori Gracey, CAE      
TCEA Executive Director
“The future of education is amazingly bright! Our educators and leaders are doing more to foster true student learning than they ever have, and new technologies are helping. AR (augmented reality) and VR (virtual reality) additions to the classroom will become more prevalent in 2018 and help the learning to be even more interactive and engaging. Geographic and social/economic boundaries will continue to fall as the Internet of Things connects us together more and more. It is an exciting time to be both a teacher and a student!”
Twitter: @tcea
 
 
 
9. Matthew Farber, Ed.D.
Assistant Professor of Technology, Innovation & Pedagogy
University of Northern Colorado 
“We need to start treating (or elevating) some digital games to be more than technology tools. Many are “new media” designed to tell narratives and to generate emotions from players. As a comparison, we don’t consider documentaries to be technology tools just because they may be played on a DVD player!
In my book, Game-Based Learning in Action, teacher John Fallon uses the game Her Story to teach literary devices (also see his blog post). Many good games tell open-ended narratives and should be examined the same as we analyze novels, film, and other “traditional” media.”
Twitter: @MatthewFarber
 
10. Steven W. Anderson, Digital Learning and Relationship Evangelist
Web20Classroom
“I believe we are in the most incredible time to learn and teach than at any other point in history. The near ubiquitous access to information, advanced devices and a growing network of connected educators makes the classroom an awesome place to be. While we cannot predict exactly what the future will hold I think we will see movements come and go, but what will continue its growth is a passion for helping kids (and adults) find meaning in their learning, new ways to connect and rapid innovation in the education profession.
Twitter: @web20classroom
 
11. Mark Engelberg
Creator of //CODE programming game series, ThinkFun
“Thanks to adaptive learning technologies, students will be able to learn at their own rate and repeat lessons as needed to gain complete mastery. This stronger focus on using technology to develop core competencies will free up teachers to use classroom time more creatively, providing fun experiences that reinforce and extend what the kids are learning. Computer science is the new literacy, and will be integrated into a wide variety of K-12 subjects.”
Twitter: @mark_engelberg
 
 
 
12. Jennie Maigiera
Chief Program Officer, EdTechTeam
“People always ask me, “What do you predict the classroom of the future will look like?” I always reply, if I could predict the future classroom, I’d be sorely disappointed. I love being surprised by new developments in technology and pedagogy. I love seeing the impossible become commonplace. The search for classroom innovation is an ongoing expedition, and I can’t wait to see what tomorrow’s discovery brings.”
Twitter: @MsMagiera
 
13. Devorah Heitner
Author of Screenwise, Founder of Raising Digital Natives 3
“Huge question. I am excited about the role tech can play in empowering people to be lifelong learners and to find a community for what they want to learn. I am also excited to see student voice and choice and project-based learning become part of so many new and ongoing educational institutions. I am concerned about inequities in access to high-quality education and schools and I hope that that is rectified nationally and globally in the future. Empowering and encouraging students to become leaders and citizens and to participate in their local and national public spheres to identify and solve problems should be the mission of schools going forward.”
Twitter: @devorahheitner
 
 
14. Sotiris Makrygiannis
Cofounder of Eliademy
“AI helps teachers become better, not setting algorithmic limits to the brains of students. VR is used on daily basis from daycare to corporate environments, however, proper time limits are set and the danger of addiction is managed. Brain to PC neuron connectivity unleashes the human potential by helping us convert thoughts to actions. Big data are used to coach, mentor citizens, for those that opt-in of course Every citizen has the right to learn anything at a 0.99 cents cost but they understand as well the responsibility of doing so.”
Twitter: melsop74
 
15. Sari Factor, CEO of Edgenuity
“We are moving toward an era where all educators and students have access to tools and technology to help them achieve academic success. Engaging, personalized learning programs – powered by technology – are becoming more prevalent and impactful across K-12 education. Educators have the ability to identify each student’s strengths and weaknesses, enabling individualized instruction at scale. Students have the freedom to learn anywhere, at any time, and at their own pace, taking ownership for their learning. The days of ‘teaching to the middle’ are over.”
Twitter: @EdgenuityInc
 
 
16. David Lord
CEO, JumpStart Games
“The use of technology and gamification in the classroom is a growing trend – one that can be harnessed in multiple forms to enhance an instant digital interaction between the teacher and the student. Implementing technology into the curriculum also allows for parents to be more involved in their child’s education, thereby creating a 360-degree experience between parent, teacher and child. While technologies such as augmented and virtual reality are still emerging, I believe that game-based learning will eventually incorporate them as well, as they will allow children the chance to explore concepts they otherwise would not have access to.”
Twitter: @JumpStart_CEO
 
17. Erik Harrell, CEO, Kahoot! 

“Teachers will become more important going forward than ever before. They will continue to be critical potential “life long” role models for students, and given that they are on the front lines interacting with students every day, they know better than anyone what methods and digital technologies work best in the classroom to engage students.  The role of the teacher will evolve from a lecturer to a guider of students – helping students develop 21st Century problem solving skills, creative skills and real world project based team collaboration skills. Teachers will capitalize on data on individual students to help them develop personalized learning plans.  As a leader in the gamification of learning, Kahoot! believes that gamification will be central to helping teachers achieve the learning outcomes they are seeking for their students.”
Twitter: @KahootErik
 
 
18. Stephania Savva, PhD.
Research Associate, Cyprus University of Technology
“I believe in the promise for education to nurture social change and tackle some of the most challenging issues we deal as societies. In the future, there will be more steps towards bridging the gap between educational theory, research and practice worldwide. These should focus on systematic and meaningful technology-enhanced instructional approaches to maximize the learning potential for students in view of 21st century demands.
What I think will be instrumental, is effective professional development (PD). This requires Design-Based research and formative assessment to develop sustainable educational systems that will expand the literacy repertoires of students to include multiliteracies’ inclusive practices.”
 
19. Suzy Brooks
Director of Instructional Technology, Mashpee Public Schools, MA
Consultant and Presenter, TechnicallyInvisible.com
“Future students and educators will learn to see past their own perceptions by utilizing tools designed to accurately reflect strengths and weaknesses and facilitate meaningful growth. Accessible, mobile tools will allow us to be responsive as students and educators by anticipating challenges and implementing better practices to meet needs quickly and effectively. Technology will empower us all to be more connected, social and collaborative in ways that foster deeper empathy, curiosity and creativity. Ultimately, the essential skills of problem-solving and critical thinking will become more robust as we continue to work together redefining and revolutionizing education. “History starts now!”
Twitter: @SimplySuzy 
 
20. Ahrani Logan
CEO & Cofounder Peapodicity
“The future of education will almost certainly include technology. The rise of tablet use in schools alongside the growing trend for interactivity to help build 21st Century skills means that technologies such as Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR) will gain more of a presence. Simple, affordable learning tools such as the award-winning AugmentifyIt®? AR Card Quiz Games designed to encourage STEM and STEAM engagement are already gaining momentum and will become more commonplace in classroom activities to extend curriculum topic learning.”
?Twitter: @AhraniLogan @Peapodicity @AugmentifyIt 
 
 
21. Meagan England
Instructional Interventionist & Educational Consultant
“Teachers and students will lead the technology revolution in education and beyond. Teachers and students will create new uses for existing technology in the classroom and the workplace. Educators and learners will design and construct the technologies needed to meet the demands of the diverse student population throughout their learning career.”
Twitter: @oodlesofteach
 
 
 
 
22. Julie King
Director of Hedges Library, Baylor School and Doctoral Student @ UPenn
“The future of education sees students as more than consumers of information and media – but rather producers of knowledge and creators of stories.  Beyond memorizing discrete facts, students will learn to sift through information to determine its value, then make their own connections and collaborations. Emerging technology tools, such as augmented and virtual reality have the potential to make powerful changes to the ways students demonstrate understanding of concepts and empathy for others – key elements for their engagement as participants in face-to-face and digital societies.”
Twitter: @libtechjules
 
23. Mark Espinola
CEO + Founder, GradeHub 
No matter the delivery, online or in person, the best learning environments have a great teacher font and center. Instead of a dystopia of abandon buildings displaced by adaptive learning, bots, and AI, I see technologist ultimately learning to serve instead of aiming to replace educators.
Change often comes through cloaking technology in a “facade of the familiar,” EdTech companies will provide teachers familiar tools that employ radical advances in technology. Striking a middle ground of familiar and new will make large-scale technology adoption possible.
Twitter: @mespi
 
24. Dr. Jason Hlavacs 
Division Chair for Applied Arts, Lyons Township High School
“Blended learning is the future of education.  The combination of online digital content and classroom experiences will allow for deeper more meaningful learning.  Blended learning allows for flexible instruction where a teacher may flip their class one day, then use station rotations the next day, or playlist completion another day. Blended learning allows for teachers to differentiate their instruction in a way that connects with students and gives students control they’ve never experienced. Blended learning will allow teachers to provide relevant context that has been missing in education while changing how the group instructional space is used.”
Twitter: @jhlavacs
 
25. Sedef Ozmen, EdTech Trainer
“Whenever you teach, you also touch the future! With the growth of technology, we as educators can touch the future even faster. So, I think innovative teachers are those that harness the power of education and those who follow the technological wave.”
Twitter: @EdTechSummit
 
 
 
26. Sharon Lynch, PhD
Research Professor of the George Washington Institute of Public Policy
Professor Emerita of Curriculum and Instruction
“STEM Education will lurch from the factory model to personalized approaches due to cultural shifts, new enabling technologies, and the diversity of students who want to learn individually, collaboratively, and experientially. Schools walls will grow increasingly porous as students connect with multi-age peers and STEM professionals to learn through games, maker spaces, clubs, and groups with STEM social action agendas. Coding and technology platforms will increasingly be used for creative expression and to demonstrate learning. New technologies will enable students learning English and those with different learning patterns and abilities.
Teaching will become more professionalized and collaborative, opened to individuals who have a range of STEM knowledge and skills and who can link students to STEM in the community. Equity issues could improve or be exacerbated, depending on policies on housing, school choice, school funding, and a recommitment to the American Dream.”
Twitter: @SharonJLynch
 
27. Dr. Nick Ceglarek
Superintendent, Hudsonville Public Schools (until June 30)
Superintendent, Traverse Bay Area Intermediate School District (TBAISD beginning July 1) 
“With the advances in technology, our role as educators is to facilitate learning, thinking, and problem-solving in a way which harnesses the incredible power at our fingertips.  Instantaneous access to world events, scientific and research data, and creativity tools currently exist in the palm of our students’ hands.  As educators, how do we use it in a way that is not distracting but enlightening? #educatorchallenge”
 
 
 
 
28. Dr. Richard Osborne, Catalysed Ltd.
“Should edtech be school led … or teacher led? Science teachers choose which experiments best suit their students, whilst Geography teachers choose the best places to explore. Maths teachers select the most apt problems, and Language teachers which grammar challenges. Why shouldn’t the same be true of edtech? I believe a personalised edtech pedagogy is the future – after all, it’s not what you use, but how you use it that matters. We all teach in our own special way, and it’s time to embrace digital technologies with the same ethos. “Right tech, right teacher” is the future of edtech.”
Twitter: @richosborne
 
29. Tim Green
Professor of Educational Technology and Teacher Education
California State University, Fullerton
“Despite the many challenges facing education, we live in a time of great promise for education. As an educational technologist and pedagogist, I see the vast potential technology coupled with effective pedagogy has to continue transforming when, where, and how teaching and learning takes place. We are moving from learning from and with technology to providing powerful learning anytime, anywhere through technology. This shift will provide learners with increased opportunities to take more ownership of their learning—allowing them to determine what they learn and how they demonstrate their learning to best meet their needs and goals. Teaching and learning will become increasingly less defined by formal learning contexts. I envision an increase in informal learning spaces—many facilitated through technology—where learners from around the globe can connect and learn from each other and from educators and experts. Learners will be part of numerous learning communities—formal and informal—that will help shape their educational experiences.”
Twitter: @theEdTechDoctor
 
30. Laura A. Pasquini, Ph.D.
Lecturer, Department of Learning Technologies, College of Information, University of North Texas
Researcher, The Digital Learning and Social Media Research Group, Royal Roads University
“The cultivation of digital literacy and information fluency development in education will help students become contributing members of our growing knowledge economy. We need to encourage learners to not only interpret and evaluate information, but also to produce and share creative content. By nurturing life-long learning practices, educators are preparing learners to be continuously engaged to support their future academic and career journey. Learning experiences should encourage students to ask critical questions, think deeply, collaborate cross-culturally, and encourage agility when faced with challenges or even professional opportunities that may not exist yet.”
Twitter: @laurapasquini
 
31. Lisa Nielsen 
The Innovative Educator
“In the future, there will no longer be talk of banning technology so students pay attention to the lectures of their teachers. Instead, time together will be spent meaningfully with the teacher providing an environment for rich discussion and creation. Lectures can be viewed independently along side transcripts, notes, and presentation materials.
In the future, student work will no longer be locked inside a classroom or school building. Instead their work will be made for an authentic audience with a focus on contributing to making the world a better place in someway.
In the future, student work will no longer be represented by numbers, grades, and a few one-size-fits-all tests. Instead, there will be authentic methods of assessment that make learning more transparent including digital portfolios and transcripts that capture mastery and micro-credentials.”
Twitter: @InnovativeEdu
 
32. Bethany Petty 
High School Social Studies Teacher and Educational Technology Blogger and Author
“This is such a fantastic time to be a teacher. The increasing availability of technology in the classroom allows teachers to create amazing learning opportunities our students, encouraging them to create representations of their knowledge, communicate and collaborate with their peers in the classroom and around the world, and think critically to solve problems. I’m excited to see these opportunities continue and increase in the coming years, as teachers work to create meaningful learning experiences for our students!”
Twitter: @Bethany_Petty
 
 
33. David Cutler (History and Journalism teacher at Brimmer and May School, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts)
“In the near future, technology will play an even more fundamental role in transforming not only how we teach, but also how students learn. The role of teacher will have completely morphed into that of a coach or mentor, and teachers will place much more emphasis on self-directed, competency-based learning. In that setting, students will be assessed not on how much they know, but on what they can do with what they know.”
Twitter: @SpinEdu
 
 
 
34. Jerry S. Boyd
Superintendent, Putnam County School System
“All learning is personal today and in the future…at least anything that is authentic, lasting, and relevant.  Technology in education, whether a device or a platform, is simply a tool that helps students make connections necessary to build knowledge; create and share ideas; and find solutions to complex problems.  Technology solutions that will best enable teachers, schools, and districts to support seamless, high quality, and purposeful personalized learning pathways for all students will have the most value for years to come.”
Twitter: @jerrysboyd
 
 
 
35. Susan Genden, PhD
Learning and Performance Consultant
“My view: the future of education is rapidly changing, impacted by technologies, time, resources, and competition. In academia, quick access to content and increased technology use are key. Also included:
Computer skills and digital literacies for all levels
Educators increasingly integrate learning technologies
Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) implementation enable powerful, engaging learning experiences
Use of video and massive open online courses (MOOCS) increases
Use of micro-learning, collaborative, and social/informal learning increases
More mobile use provides quicker access
Curated content grows and provides learning guidance
Deeper learning and self-directed learning outcomes increase
Emphasis on continuous learning”
Twitter: @susangenden 
 
36. Patricio Vargas, PhD
Assistant Superintendent Educational Services
Norwalk – La Mirada Unified School District
“From the one room school house to a limitless world at your fingertips, education continues to evolve as a means to maximize human potential. The excitement of today’s possibilities provides a vision for what the future has to offer: students who are part of networks of interaction linked by common interests where shared responsibility ignites passion for learning. It is in this setting where teachers’ roles, pedagogical approaches, and the use of artificial intelligence shift to ensure that learning expectations are met within the context of a professional community.”
Twitter: @Varssatty
 
37. Steve Coxon, PhD
Associate Professor and Executive Director,
Center for Access and Achievement, Maryville University 

Steve Coxon
“As VR tech advances and prices fall, educational opportunities will expand dramatically and become available to almost everyone. At Maryville University, for example, we help prepare better teachers by using 360 cameras and VR headsets that enable them to review everything happening in their practicum classrooms.
Other forms of education won’t disappear, but soon students of all ages and backgrounds will have access to high quality educational experiences previously impossible; from young children creating virtual field trips of local ecosystems and sharing them worldwide to medical students practicing surgery. Inequitable access to high-speed internet is the biggest barrier to overcome.”
Twitter: @STEMaryville
 
38. Brian Dall Schyth, Ph.D., M.Sc., High School teacher at Aarhus statsgymnasium (High School), Århus, Denmark: https://www.aarhusstatsgymnasium.dk/; Animator and illustrator in the company ExplainWays: www.explainways.com 
 “The future of education will, due to an increase in opportunities and freedom for both teacher and student, be even more concerned with making the right choices than what we see today. Adaptation to individual student needs will be required to increase student success thereby requiring extensive formative evaluation why I imagine that computer-aided systems for correcting assignments will be used even more than today – a paradox to be addressed. Virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR) in combination with 2D/3D animation will surely add to the highly engaging ways of hooking students, stimulating learning and explaining hard to grasp relationships in the real world. Teachers or mentors will still be the student’s possibility for gaining help in choosing and for tying together the information and experiences from the different curriculum parts into what we call learning.”
Twitter: @DallSchyth
 
39. John Harrington
CEO, Funds for Learning
“Education has always been about connecting students to their future – and the future of education is connected learners. Internet-based tools and communications are transforming education by giving students more opportunities to learn than ever before. Online tools and personalized resources empower students to gather information, collaborate with other learners, and share their work with the world. The key to unleashing this potential lies in reducing the entry barriers to our digital society and providing electronic devices and persistent Internet connections to our students. If we succeed at that, our students will be connected to a very bright future.”
Twitter: @JDHarrington
 
40. Derrick Brown
Chief Innovation Officer, MBA. Evergreen Public Schools
“I believe the future of education begins with transforming teaching and learning, which means teachers are no longer at the front of the classroom lecturing to students with written instruction or having students memorizing facts.  My hope is we create innovative learners and thinkers that can harness the knowledge and power of the Internet.  We are no longer looking for excellent test takers or trying to find out what a student memorized.  Instead, we want to build and establish upon their interests and be curious about personalized learning.  I want kids to thirst for knowledge in a creative way, thinking critically, communicating and engaging about what could be or have the willingness to find out the possibilities.”
Twitter:  @ITandEducation
 
1. D. Mark McCoy, President
Depauw University

“Higher education must reinvent itself to be relevant to the challenges of today’s world. When costs and debt soar while innovation and application lag, families struggle. We must do more than recognize change; we must lead it. To do so, we must think and act differently. “The dogmas of the quiet past are inadequate for the stormy present.” The future of work is changing. I use to say that we can no longer expect a sustainable future for bright but uneducated people. Now I feel that way about people educated via the methods of the past.”
Twitter: @DMarkMcCoy

 
2. Michael Desiderio
Executive Director of the Executive MBA Council
“Artificial Intelligence (AI), Augmented Reality (AR) and Virtual Reality (VR), are all technological innovations that the education space is going to have to deal with in one form or another in the future. Some segments of education will embrace them, some will watch them and others will ignore them. Hybrid learning will continue to expand, and as it does AI, AR, and VR will be used to enhance the education experience. For example, using chatbots to field student queries affords 24/7 access, further increasing the flexibility of learning solutions. Education is here to stay, and so is technology – the convergence will continue.”
Twitter: @EMBACouncil
 
3. Donna Loraine
President of Carrington College

“Education is about making successful learning connections with students in a changing world. Just as our teaching techniques have changed to address our current learners, these will continue to evolve. The future will introduce even more sophisticated technologies adjusting our teaching models to match how our new generations of students are accustomed to connecting with information. Additionally, global and industry partner collaboration with the education environment will become the norm, and more flexible, virtual alternatives will add educational options to traditional brick and mortar learning.”
 
4. Dr. Pareena Lawrence
President of Hollins University
“While much of the education colleges and universities are providing is becoming increasingly specialized, cross-functional skills such as adaptability and critical thinking, and the ability to connect the dots and understand context will continue to be vital even with the changing nature of jobs. As technology rapidly evolves, knowledge base expands, and industries continue to automate, a narrow subset of specialized skills and knowledge may not apply to jobs five or ten years in the future. Simply put, there is no replacement for the value of a liberal arts degree.”
Twitter: @PresLawrence
 
 
5. Dr. Susan Bainbridge 
Distance Education Specialist
“Higher education will adapt to a more sustainable model that produces graduates with practical skills for a functioning society. Universities in their current form will shrink. They will continue to produce medical doctors, teachers, nurses, engineers, etc., but there will be fewer people enrolling in degrees that offer no practical skills. Society also needs plumbers, electricians, police officers, firefighters, municipal workers, and they require training not philosophy.  Distance education will continue to grow for learning and training as people will need to upgrade continually to maintain tech skills required for their jobs.”
Twitter: @eddebainbridge
 
6. George J. Hagerty
President of Beacon College, Leesburg, Florida
“If we are serious about issues of access, quality, accountability, and even financial efficacy, the educational community must embrace through common practice the imperative of universal design. Architecture, the construction of facilities and public spaces, and even technology have evolved in practice at a much more substantial scope and pace than has the delivery of the instruction and related services that these structural features support. Whether at the K-12 or collegiate level, the increasing diversity of students and the quest for improved learning outcomes will demand that policy-makers and practitioners create environments and common curricula that optimize the results and learning experiences for all modalities and profiles found in the classroom.”
 
7. Sean Graham, FNT Software
“To keep pace with the evolving education sector, schools must provide classroom settings that allow for more digital, mobile and technology-based learning environments. Educating the twenty-first century workforce and beyond requires modern IT infrastructure.
In the near future, institutions will have to transform their IT and cable infrastructure into a modern technological system that has the flexibility to adapt to the evolving needs of student, faculty and administration. By providing both traditional and expanded services more efficiently and at lower costs, IT infrastructure will fully support the institution’s main mission of delivering quality education.”
Twitter: @FNTSoftware
 
8. Steven Klinsky
Founder and CEO
Modern States Education Alliance
“There will be new paths to affordable college. Five million people take online classes for credit now but at full tuition. It would be very inexpensive for a philanthropy or government to put one ‘best in class’ college course online from a great professor in each subject, available free to all and with a College Board style test attached to prove student skill and earn accreditation at traditional schools.  The College Board AP and CLEP exam system and the exam system in the U.K are examples to build upon and expand.”
Twitter: @modernstatesed
 
 
9. Marybeth Gasman
Judy & Howard Berkowitz Professor of Education
University of Pennsylvania
“I think that education needs to become more nimble and flexible – it needs to provide content as well as skills in its delivery. For far too long, we have not concentrated on preparing college faculty that can actually teach —we privilege content knowledge, which is important, but creative and engaging delivery is essential. If we don’t change, we are going to lose students to non-traditional approaches. Higher education will become less relevant.”
Twitter: @marybethgasman
 
 
 
10. Grant Taylor
CEO, Quotanda
“Online and blended learning is enabling educators and allowing students to learn faster in and outside the classroom. New business models will continue to provide opportunities for students to take short courses for high-demand skills (i.e. code bootcamps, data science, online marketing etc.) with exceptional employment outcomes reflecting a high return on investment (ROI).
Affordability is the greatest barrier to educational access globally, particularly for tertiary education. Automated, digital financial aid (scholarships & loans) from educators and lenders, both public and private, will increasingly expand educational access.”
Twitter: @Quotanda 